[Music]
so this is the rabbit R1 and it's
another AI in a box and it's a sign of
the times so this thing here it has a
lot in common with the Humane AI pin for
better for worse but it's also supposed
to have two specific things that are
supposed to set it apart from that
supposed to anyway and we have to talk
about
it so stop if this sounds familiar at
any point but check this out this is a
virtual assistant in a box but it's a
different box this one is not wearable
it's a thing you have to carry around
with you in your pocket like a
smartphone I'd say it's about the size
of a stack of posits maybe but it's this
lightweight plastic Cube designed by
teenage engineering and boy do people
love some teenage engineering right now
and it's super I mean you can tell
exactly what it is from a mile away this
thing is very recognizable the thing has
one button on the right side that's the
one you press and hold to ask it
questions and then instead of a
projector it actually does have a
built-in screen here and instead of
built-in cellular it has a SIM card tray
right alongside that USB type-c port for
charging I'd say it does seem to send
basically every single request to the
cloud but I will say it does feel
significantly quicker to answer
questions than the Humane AI pin now
that is a very very low bar to clear but
it is it's consistent it's consistently
quicker how far away is the Moon
the average distance between Earth and
the Moon is approximately 384,000
or it would do that automatically after
a few seconds then hit the button again
to wake it up boom just the rabbit
waiting for you there and then to get to
settings there's no button to press for
that there's no gesture on the screen or
anything you just shake it like an etes
sket as long as you do that then from
there you can scroll up and down with
this scroll wheel and select with the
button that's how you get around the UI
so the other two things it has are the
scroll wheel and a swiveling camera so
the scroll wheel for navigating around
the UI instead of the screen
is I'll get to why it's odd in a second
but then of course the AI assistant is
multimodal and so you can use Vision to
answer questions about what it sees so
we've seen this before with this one you
double tap to swivel it open and then
press and hold to ask I don't know what
type of plant is
this taking a look
now the plant in the image appears to be
a Monera deliciosa also known as a Swiss
cheese plant this is a type of tropical
climbing Evergreen plant native to
Southern Mexico and parts of Central
America the large glossy green leaves
with distinct as a reviewer testing this
thing I just feel like that DJ khed clip
after a while where I'm just pointing at
stuff like okay what is this and what is
this and what is this those are pickled
banana peppers and what is this berries
and seeds and perhaps what is this water
but I've also I've just pointed it at my
computer screen with a really long email
on it and asked it for a summary and it
just reads it instantly gives me a
summary of it it's done that with
articles too I think that's pretty cool
but yeah it's just a it's an AI in a box
it's best at just answering
questions so yeah this thing is also bad
at a lot of stuff and this this list is
going to sound pretty familiar somehow
the battery life is just as bad as the
Humane pin it has a th000 mAh battery
inside and it's brutally bad like it's
already bad enough when you're carrying
around a whole another device alongside
your smartphone but when this one can
sit in front of you doing nothing and
the battery just visibly is draining and
dies in like 4 hours then you have to
charge it multiple times per day and
it's still dead when you wake up in the
morning like it's just exhausting also
it took 45 minutes to charge this tiny
battery from Z to 100 and it's also just
straight up missing a ton of what I
would consider just basic features like
they can't set alarms can't set timers
it can't record videos can't record
photos can't send emails there's no
calendar built in there's just a lot of
things that I would want an assistant to
do not here and of course being an AI
assistant it also does still hallucinate
and confidently answer questions wrong
like my Baseline of asking a question
that I know the answer to and then
getting the wrong answer happens all the
time just one of the downfalls of this
category so this device was designed by
teenage engineering and they're really
leaning into that like that's why I mean
it's this bright orange it is really
friendly looking device I would say
intentionally uh but yeah they really
love their analog controls this scroll
wheel here doesn't surprise me but it's
actually really frustrating to use first
of all it protrudes out the back a
little bit as you can see which looks
kind of cool but that means if it was
really sensitive that it would actually
scroll if you just put it down on a
table or something so they've dialed
down the sensitivity of the scroll wheel
so it's actually super slow like 's a
surprising amount of scroll motion
required to go down one line in the
settings and then there's no haptic
feedback here as you're scrolling to
help you feel it out so fine okay you
can get used to that you use the button
to select but then you've also noticed
there's no back button anywhere on this
device so to go back up a level you have
to scroll all the way back up to the top
every single time that also gets
annoying and then to change brightness
or volume you actually need two hands so
you just go into bright brightness to
select and you hold the button with one
hand and then scroll the scroll wheel
with the other hand to adjust brightness
which yeah you just you can't do it with
one hand it works so you can learn it
and you can say you know it's this
quirky UI it's got going on but I feel
like a lot of these problems would be
solved if this was a touchcreen
so what if I told you this is a
touchcreen and they just don't really
let you use it for almost anything like
moving through these menus would be
easier if if I could just tap what I
wanted to right going back after a long
scroll would be easier if I could just
flip scroll back to the top of a list
and hit back but you can't the only
thing you can use the touchcreen for is
basically typing on the keyboard in
terminal mode so with terminal enabled
you can turn it sideways a keyboard pops
up and you can type your questions and
get text answers which is great and you
can move between letters with the scroll
wheel it's kind of a neat feature I
guess but why can't we use the
touchscreen for anything else is it just
them trying not to look too much like a
smartphone
maybe
probably so okay what's the point why
does this thing exist if it's so similar
to the other one that was also so bad
what are we doing here uh and really
there's two things that I think they're
hoping will be the things that set it
apart from the other one that should in
the words of their co-founder Jesse but
I don't think I don't think MKBHD will
say this is the worst device he ever
reviewed so far which low bar but okay
those two things are the price tag and
the large action model so the Humane pin
was so easy for everyone to dunk on
because it was it costs as much as a
phone it was
$700 with a $24 a month subscription to
not turn into a brick it's just insane
so this one right here costs $200 and no
subscription so you know okay that that
hits a little different
but also you can tell it's $200 first of
all you will need a separate SIM card to
get it to work on cellular so while
there is no subscription fee for rabbit
to keep the device working that is still
a fee you're going to pay every month to
get data outside of Wi-Fi but then okay
the unboxing experience is extremely
minimal it comes in a single cardboard
box with a cassette tape looking plastic
container that doubles as a stand but
there's literally nothing else no
charging brick no USBC cable no stickers
no paper instruction manual nothing at
all and then the R1 itself is made of
plastic not to say that it's not built
well you know there's no flexing or
creaking or anything like that but it's
definitely plastic the camera very basic
the speaker very cheap you know it's a
low-end mediatech chip inside the same
one that's in the Moto G8 power light
which is like a $150 phone hardly any
battery as we learned and no fancy fast
charging or wireless charging and it
comes in one color really bright orange
like this ridiculously saturated bright
orange I'm not even joking the color
you're seeing in this YouTube video on
your screen it's going to be the best I
can do with my own color correction but
it's legitimately hard to photograph
like the phone camera doesn't really
turn saturation up high enough to really
represent it accurately in real life
it's the brightest orange thing you've
ever seen in your life I guarantee it
now if you want something a little more
low-key than the neon orange Channel
sponsor dbrand actually does have you
covered here I've got this black camo
looking one here and now the orange bits
that show through are kind of like more
accent pieces which is pretty dope but
fun fact dbrand also collaborated with
rabbit ahead of the release to make sure
screen protectors for this thing were
also available on launch day so that
includes mine if you want to check it
out screen protectors or skins for the
R1 you can hit up the link below but
yeah speaking of the screen this is a
2.9 in diagonal TFT screen with no auto
brightness so yeah I think you get the
idea
so you know how the Humane AI pin had no
apps well this thing also has no apps
but the other thing that they're hoping
will separate it from the other stuff is
what they're calling a large action
model so you know large language models
are just the words the language that we
use so it's an AI that can take our
natural language and process it and turn
it into words in return and that's how
we interact with it so a large action
model is supposed to take our words and
then process it and turn it into actions
that's the theory so it's basically
going to be able to use apps for you
like a human would based on what you
tell it to do now importantly this isn't
the same as an API where you know a
company might work with the others to
have some sort of a plug into their
services that they work together because
an API can be a little too restrictive
or not give all the features or just not
quite I mean there's lots of good
reasons why they don't want to rely on
an API so what this is supposed to be
doing is just going in and using the app
just like a human essentially with like
a mouse and a keyboard think of it as
like a virtual agent honestly I think
it's a really cool idea I think it's a
really really cool idea you know large
language models have been trained with
all their data to talk back to us just
like humans would and some of are very
convincing so a large action model in
theory should be able to use these apps
and services just like a human would for
from Spotify to Twitter to your banking
app to whatever else it's already good
enough at recognizing major UI elements
like a play button or a buy button and
things like that so with enough training
data could get really
good with enough training data could get
really good but the thing is they don't
have a ton of training data yet so as of
right now they have made four apps
available four they have this online
portal called The Rabbit Hole where you
can log into and enable all of them
Spotify Uber door Dash and mid Journey
so the rabbit can talk to these four
apps and has a UI on the screen for
doing so in the exact way that we're
theorizing so it'll play Spotify songs
like I can ask it for a song and it'll
try to play the right one and it'll show
you any info you need on the touch
screen to confirm or refine the actions
you're taking but even now they kind of
work like I've already had issues with
it playing the wrong song I've also seen
other people already have issues with
the door Dash app getting things wrong
which is even more frustrating I can't
imagine how frustrating the Uber app
messing up would be it definitely seems
like it needs more training data and
that's just for these four starting apps
now rabbit says they have 800 different
apps trained already but they just
haven't built a UI for it yet so it's
not available on the rabbit yet and so
that's still in the works now they've
also theoretically started working on
something called a generative UI where
essentially it can recognize what type
of app it is and then build a UI for it
so Rabbit doesn't have to but that's
also still theoretical and also on the
road map and still in the works and then
if there's another app or service that
you want your rabbit to be able to do
like some something for work or
something super Niche that you've
invented they've talked about something
called Teach mode mode which is
basically having the rabbit watch you do
what you want it to do on your mouse and
keyboard and then it learns from what
you did and can then repeat your actions
later which is sick unfortunately you
can probably already see where this is
going teach mode is also not available
as of right now this is something
they're still working on vetting and
finishing and so that's just later this
year also in the works so as of right
now this device has none of that stuff
just the four kind of half working apps
that we went over at the
beginning what what are we doing
here okay I'm going to try not to turn
this into a rant but I just I feel like
we need to acknowledge at least that uh
a lot of these tech companies are
developing Tech kind of backwards like
they are delivering such unfinished
products that it actually makes them
nearly impossible to review like it you
it feels like it used to just
make the thing and then put it on sale
now it's like put it on sale and then
deliver the half-baked thing and then
iterate and make it better and hopefully
with enough updates then it's it's ready
and it's what we promised way back when
we first started selling it and then
this this whole period in the middle is
a mess and it's across all kinds of
product categories too we've seen this
with gaming like huge studios are
delivering half-baked games saying oh
you know it's an alpha version like
there will be updates but meanwhile it's
a full price trip AA game that's just
got an unacceptable number of bugs and
issues it's also happening with cars and
vehicles getting announced and then
delivering with like a half-finished
state where you just don't get a lot of
the features that you paid for and
they're eventually coming soon with a
software update you know smartphones
obviously we've been seeing this for
years but it does seem like now more
than ever there's at least one feature
one major feature of every smartphone
launch that gets announced but that's
not coming until later in the year and
now these AI based products are at like
the Apex of this horrible Trend where
the thing that you get at the beginning
is like borderline
nonfunctional compared to all the
promises and all the features and all
the things that it's supposed to maybe
someday be but you still pay full price
at the beginning which is what makes it
so crazy and that sucks not only
obviously for the people buying it at
full price at the beginning but also for
reviewing these things in general like
how do you assess a product where
the version of what's promised in like 3
years what it could be is amazing but
the version that's being delivered now
is dog water like how how do you connect
those dots do you even connect those
dots are you supposed to given the
benefit of the doubt I don't know what
are we even doing here I mean I guess on
one hand it is good that Tech products
these things can get better over time
and improve and the thing you buy can be
better tomorrow that's all great that
didn't used to be true and that's
beautiful and everything but it on the
other hand it's just the other side of
that coin is some very unfinished
products being delivered and I just feel
like it's going to get worse before it
gets
better so let me just say I am
personally very excited by the idea of a
super personalized AI assistant that can
do everything that a human assistant
could that's my that's my dream I want
that to happen and I'm interested that
these different companies are
approaching it from different angles and
hopefully we'll get there eventually but
this is also so clearly going to take a
lot of time and effort and Technical
development and also a lot of data like
I've I said this already in the Humane
review I'm pretty sure which is a good
assistant needs to know everything about
you whether it's human or virtual like
it needs to know your preferences and
your location and what you're doing and
what you like to do and every single
little thing it's so much data so as for
the
rabbit I think that's why they focused
on getting the price so low like this
stuff is all a tough sell because you're
taking a gamble on what the product
could be someday but for the pin you
have to drop
$700 and $24 every month on the chance
that it might someday get there like
that's a lot of money but for this cute
little thing 200 bucks feels like a much
easier investment to make a much easier
pill to swallow to just take a gamble on
it and on the off chance it turns out to
be awesome in a couple of years it'll
feel like it's worth it you know on the
chance that some of those 800 apps are
super useful or you know even though you
already have a smartphone maybe the
teach mode lets it do something with a
single button press that you could never
dream of before then it could be totally
worth it the whole situation reminds me
kind of of if you if you look back at
the beginning of when Tesla started
shipping cars with all the autopilot
stuff they were selling cars and they
got popular for other reasons it was a
good electric car with good range and a
good charging Network and then people
started sort of beta testing this
autopilot stuff and Tesla starts
collecting millions of miles and hours
of data from how it works in the real
world and so all that data helped their
systems learn and get the Head Start
that they need on trying to make the
best autopilot software so the rabbit
I'm sure would like to use their price
advantage and get as many of them out
into the real world as possible into
people's hands so they can start beta
testing and having it trained in getting
good at a variety of tasks but the
rabbit's problem is it doesn't have like
the other reason why people would get it
anyway today so it's it's like a kind of
a chicken and egg problem so if you want
my advice you've heard it before buy the
product based on what it is today and
not what it's promised to be in the
future and with this category that's
like the hardest thing to do the hardest
thing to keep in mind because the
promise is so big
but that's still my advice and I guess
we still also have yet to see what big
companies like Google and apple are
going to try to do in this space
probably this year so with all of that
we'll
see thanks for watching catch you in the
next one peace